uh Israel and Hamas as well as the
mediators haven't really said anything
specific in their discussions about a
possible ceasefire in Gaza but as
Charles were saying the broad proposal
is believed to be based on a three-stage
process so the first phase would be a
six-week ceasefire during which Hamas
would release women the elderly and
wounded captives in exchange for
Palestinians held in Israeli prisons and
the second phase would include a
permanent end to the hostilities as well
as the release of all remaining Israeli
captives then the third phase would be
the Reconstruction of Gaza and the
return of the remains of any deceased
captives to Israel we have with us
Daniel Levy who's the president of the
independent policy Institute the US
Middle East project he's also a former
Israeli Peace negotiator joining us from
London welcome back to Al jazer Daniel
leving so um Charles was just saying
that going into these talks uh prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu presented a
list of what he said were four
non-negotiable Israeli demands including
guarantee that Israel could resume
fighting at any point if there was a
ceasefire so this has angered some in
Israel as well as some of the some
mediators accusing him of attempting to
sabotage any progress having said that
going into these talks what are the
chances of a breakthrough in your
opinion darene it's good to be with you
I think you just kind of answered your
own question the chances for a
breakthrough are very slim because prime
minister Netanyahu and it's not exactly
breaking news continues to do everything
to undermine those prospects it raises
the question that why have the US
Administration been lying to us since
President Biden gave that speech
outlining the plan on May 31 when
they've been telling us for weeks Israel
accepts it it's all good there's only
one problem Hamas that's not true prime
minister Netanyahu knows that if he
insists on continuing the war the
devastation the destruction what we saw
again yesterday in Kan Yunis what we see
every day the Mass daily civilian
killing events he knows that if he
insists on continuing that there can't
be a deal because any effort to create
some kind of constructive
ambiguity is totally blown up by his
very clear insistence but so people have
been looking at this and saying Hamas
gave some clarifications on what
constitutes
plausible
guarantees that they would consider
enough to go into the deal people hope
that maybe the Israeli Parliament going
on recess would give Netanyahu some
political wiggle room the Israeli
security establishment is more clearly
in favor of a deal they know that their
own troops are somewhat exhausted and
this is going nowhere the Americans are
perhaps more desperate so that added up
to maybe there's some optimism but that
has been one once again totally negated
by the Israeli Prime Minister and let me
tell you darene the Israeli some of the
Israeli journalists are being honest and
telling us that they are being fed
information and they're being told they
have to quote this as military sources
on the Israeli side but it's coming from
the prime minister's office and it is
designed intentionally to create
obstacles on the path to a deal but
here's the thing Daniel I mean could
this idea of phases these three phases
and starting off with a short term
ceasefire create the space for an actual
end to the war that that it would make
it harder for Israel to resume due to
some of the pressures that you speak of
on the Prime Minister as well as his own
troops being
exhausted so that's the design you're
absolutely right that's the structure
they' tried to give this and that kind
of thing can perhaps work because you go
into this with an intention a commitment
at least on the part of the mediators
that this will continue knowing it's
fragile and then you try and create
realities on the ground getting in that
desperately needed humanitarian
assistance withdrawal uh uh at least in
part in the initial phase of the Israeli
forces and you try and create layer upon
layer of reality which makes a return to
the current Horrors more difficult but
in order to do that you have to have
some kind of willingness to go along
with that on the part of the Israeli
government the Israeli leadership so if
natany yahu were to not commit but were
to keep quiet or to say things that
could perhaps be lent to dual
interpretation but he quite
categorically doesn't do that and
therefore the structure is a
plausible um phase by phase with a
degree of uncertainty that structure is
undermined by the certainty expressed by
the Israeli leader and then you go back
into the question of okay how do you
change that calculation right and
because the US is unwilling to use its
leverage because it still sends all
those weapons it is unwilling to change
that calculation but behind closed doors
when it comes to these negotiations
Daniel how much pressure do you think
the likes of William Burns and Brett
mcgurk are actually putting on the
Israelis at this point and from what you
know this time around how much leeway
does the Israeli negotiation team have
because in the past they weren't given
the Mandate do they have it this time
around from everything we know darene
the the answer to that is negative that
the Mandate is still very limited and in
terms of what's the pressure behind
closed doors well well here's the thing
if they're saying one thing behind
closed doors but then nanyu is confident
that in public President Biden will
simply go back to a narrative that
blames the other side not the Israeli
side and to a reality in which Israel
gets enough and virtually everything
that it wants from the Americans and
that Netanyahu has been invited by the
Republican and the Democrat
Congressional leadership to address that
body at the end of this month and he
knows he can go there and have a lot of
fun in his terms with that speech so the
quiet we are telling you this in quiet
we won't say it in public it doesn't
work it's weakness and it's all a bit
pathetic set against the horrors that we
see and the fact that we're now in
summer it's hot the the the starvation
the desperation the ongoing inability to
get supplies in Israel preventing that
the what's going on in Northern Gaza
when you look at that big picture and
you look at what the US is bringing to
the table I think one has to draw a very
depressing sad conclusion and hope that
that change but only public pressure may
change it okay Daniel Levy thank you so
much for joining us from
London thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer